Since this is my first writing exercise, I’m not really sure what to write. I accidentally read all of the readings beyond the assigned pages, so my brain is a little overloaded with information. 

Something I’ve been thinking about recently is how little in this world is black or white. I am a firm believer that 95% of the human experience is gray, and all we can do with that information is to interpret it with our own experiences and perspectives. So, I was quite glad to see that in Chapter 1 of the Niedenthal reading that my opinion was echoed. 

Reading about the different theories of emotion was quite interesting - there were some that I thought were wholly incorrect, even though they are theories and not one is more correct over the other. 

Something that stood out to me was on page 19 of the Nidenthal reading which stated that “an individual cannot experience any given emotion until he has learned to interpret situations in terms of the standards and moral imperatives endorsed by the culture that are relevant to that emotion”. If someone has not assimilated to a certain culture or didn’t grow up interacting with the “majority” of said culture, there will be differences in what emotions are felt in certain situations. Specifically in my life, I didn’t grow up with a lot of friends nor do I hang out with a lot of people (not my own personal choice). I feel a disconnect in what emotions I feel versus what emotions I think and see people feeling. Due to this, it makes it difficult for me to connect with a lot of people. It makes me feel as though I am not suited to be hanging out with a lot of people, and makes me feel out of place. I guess what I can infer from the reading is that I would need to put myself out there and interact with many different people. 

Going back to the black-and-white versus gray topic, reading about bipolarity and independence was very interesting. It is possible for many things to be present at the same time. When people ask me how I’ve been doing recently, most of the time I can only answer that I’ve been doing okay. Because most of the time I am quite neutral - neither positive nor negative. This doesn’t necessarily mean the absence of both nor does it mean the presence of both. The best word I can use to describe my emotion most of the time is ambivalent. Ambivalence is seen as a negative descriptor - it’s often defined as someone having mixed and conflicting emotions. I don’t necessarily think that ambivalence is an “active” emotion but rather a state of being neither positive nor negative. As stated before, I think it’s possible to feel neither positive nor negative, as well as feeling both at the same time. If that made any sense. 

These readings really highlighted the intricacies of emotion and the role that it plays in people’s perceptions of their own life as well as others’ lives.