This week's readings focused on the function of emotions for intrapersonal, interpersonal and group relationships. While the Niedenthal reading was a good resource to see what theories people have come up with throughout time, I found the Levenson reading to be very interesting and was a new perspective that I hadn't thought of before.

The four theories that were presented in the Niedenthal reading were: (1) that emotions have no adaptive function at all - this was presented by the Stoics and is something along the lines that emotions are an “animalistic” behaviour and we, as humans, must overcome it to make rational decisions; (2) the evolutionary theory presented by Darwin that emotions once served an evolutionary function but it is no longer needed in the present; (3) that emotions serve a different function than in the past due to the modernization of society; and (4) a functionalist perspective which states that emotions do serve the same functions but is currently shaped by environmental problems that come repeatedly. 

Out of the 4 theories I believe that the third and fourth are most applicable, and this was touched on in the Levenson reading as well. The discussion surrounding the function and action of emotion typically discusses emotions felt in situations that directly threaten our livelihood and well-being, such as a tiger appearing in front of us. However, in modern society, that doesn’t happen often (the only modern equivalent I can think of is if a car doesn’t stop for you). This primitive instinct to protect our health is a really easy way to see the autonomic and physiological changes that happen in our body and is easily observable. 

This is where I thought the Levenson reading was especially eye opening. I had never thought of emotion as a two-system mechanism. It discusses the core system, which is explained to be like an algorithm where the body creates an output (the emotion) in response to an input (situation/stimuli). This is more a primitive and fail-safe mechanism of the body. But there is also a much more complex control system, which I feel is what makes this theory interesting. Yes, it is important to understand that there are automatic and instinctive responses built into our bodies for self-preservation, but in modern society it is more advantageous to learn to inhibit and control those actions. The reading states that there are two methods that the more complex control system acts on our emotions: (1) it changes the way we appraise and perceive the world around us and (2) changes the way we respond to situations. This control system works off the more ‘universal’ and ‘primitive’ core system. 

I think that this is an extremely valid way of understanding how emotions work because it also takes into account the individual experiences that a human has. As someone grows up, the way they perceive certain situations differs from how other people might, and different responses may arise between different people. Someone may not have any negative association or reaction to the idea of public speaking, but another person might be extremely terrified of it. And that is a difference in appraisal of input. Also, how a person acts on that emotion and appraisal differs and is developed from experience. Over one’s lifetime one learns the “meaning of events and the consequences and appropriateness of emotion-related behaviours – [which] combine to form the essence of ‘emotion regulation’” (Levenson, 1999). This is a very good explanation of the emotional development of a person. Through one’s very individual experiences comes the very individual understanding, which results in a very individual emotion regulation system. I think it is a very good theory that understands the nuances of emotion between person to person.