# Jamie Lee Week 10 Writing Assignment 
I want to take this week's writing assignments to talk about my goals. 

I've found these weeks readings to be extremely relevant to where I currently am in life. I am 2 semesters away from graduating from a program that is extremely strict and inflexible, nursing. I came into college unsure of what direction I wanted to go in life and I believed the nursing was a safe route that would ensure stability in the future. But as time would go on, my interests became clearer and clearer. 
I even very recently tweeted about this, I wrote: 
"It's frustrating knowing where you want to be and seeing where you are right now
and not knowing the exact path to get to where you want to be."
"What I want for myself has slowly become clearer over the course of the past couple years, but during those past couple years I am moving further away from that goal because of the path I am currently on. And I regret not using that time to move forward in my vision."
"It just feels like wasted time and I am constantly holding myself back."
"I am slowly rediscovering myself but it's just lost time and I know there is no point in looking back and regretting the things I haven't done - just look forward and see what I can do now but it's just a shame."

Which is extremely timely. I'm at a time in my life where I'm nearing graduation and my post-graduation plans will soon become a reality. But I don't even have a solid idea of what I want to do post graduation. I came to CWRU as a nursing student and I am still a nursing student. I was originally planning on going to art school for illustration, and throughout the portfolio process, I became extremely discouraged and switched over to nursing. I didn't think I could really achieve anything else. I didn't think that at the time, but now that I look back, the reason I didn't consider any other path for myself was becuase I didn't think that I was capable. 
And now I am nearing the end of my nursing school career. Throughout this time, I've gone through a lot. I've had a lot of mental health issues (still do!), took a year off from school, and gone through a lot of financial issues. And having gone through everything and still being in the program, you would think that I would be ever more grateful to be here. 

But I'm not.
While I value the education that I got here, I have always known that I had separate personal interests. I never saw myself as a nurse. I don't see myself being a nurse for the rest of my life. I still have very strong interests in art, and recently (in the past couple of years) developed a strong interest in programming, web developement and art. I am also now dating somebody who has equal strong interests as me in the same fields, but at a later stage in their skill level. And while seeing that and being around him I am motivated, I am also sad about where I am. There are so many classes that I would like to be able to take at Case, because we have really great professors and great resources that allow students to pursue interests further, I am locked into a program with no leeway. I have no room in my schedule to take classes that I would like to take. And with that comes my current perspective on my life's meaning. 
I think my life's meaning is on hold at the moment. I am somebody who is generally extremely positive, and was a good example of someone who would "exert less cognitive effort when making judgements and are subsequently more likely to use a simple 'feelings-as-information' heuristic compared to people in negative moods". The feeling is equal to my experience, which is equal to my life's meaning. However, since I'm not in a really good place at the moment, my feeling of negativity is also equating to my life's meaning right now. Thus, making my life not good. 

I also injured myself and am unable to really do anything for myself. Maybe this isn't a good time for me to write a paper on my goals. Because I'm not in a really good place physically (unable to move, unable to walk, unable to do all of the activities that mad)
