Jamie Lee 

### (1) What causes emotions? Major theories about how they unfurl.

The major theories regarding emotions and what causes emotions are the evolutionary, cognitive and social constructionist theories. 

The evolutionary theory states that emotions serve a survival function but are no longer applicable in today’s society. The most primitive example is the fight or flight response, which activates the sympathetic nervous system and drives us to run away from whatever stimulus is causing it. It is nearly a strictly biological view of emotions and is almost to say that emotions are preprogrammed - input leads to an output. 

The cognitive theory states that emotions are a byproduct of appraising situations and events. A person can process an event/situation and depending on their comprehension of the situation will different emotions will be elicited. This is a less strict and ‘by-the-book’ method of viewing emotions (in comparison to the evolutionary perspective) and notes that emotions are not hard-wired. Different people can have different emotional reactions to the same stimuli. This is present in the taxi driver reading, when the driver had a very strong and angry reaction to the child kicking the ashtray down by accident. As I was reading this vignette, I was thinking how strange the reaction by the driver was. It is not a typical reaction, normally I would think people would just take notice of it and maybe get annoyed, but this just goes to show how different emotions can be between different people, even with the same stimulus. 

The social constructionist view states that emotions are a byproduct of the norms of the society and culture that one is in. Without an understanding of the norms of the culture, one will be unable to feel an emotion as a result of certain situations because they don’t know what emotion is supposed to be felt. For some reason, I thought of this also during the Taxi reading because the child, Lev, is quite young and is still learning about emotions and emotional reactions. Lev tells his father (the narrator) that because the father apologized to the driver that the driver has to apologize too, and I think that is something that the father has taught to the child. I don’t think a child, who hasn’t been taught to do that or has seen people do it, would know that apologies should be shared and reciprocated. Later in the reading as well, Lev states that he can’t tell that the driver is sorry, and while the driver probably wasn’t sorry in any way, Lev was looking for behavioral and bodily cues to deduce whether or not the driver was sorry. These behavioral and bodily cues are highly dependent on culture and what Lev was looking for was the cues that represent a ‘sorry’ emotion in accordance with that culture. 

### (2) Levenson’s 1999 Core-Control System.** 

Levenson’s Core-control system is quite interesting. It states that emotion regulation is a 2-system program, which involves the core system and the control system. The core system is the more primitive system that derived from survival instincts and is more robust. The control system on the other hand is newer and more flexible. A good analogy of the core and control system is that the core system is the heart - it is strong and robust, and it serves one function, to pump blood. But in order to vascularize the human body and have more practical function, blood vessels need to exist. These blood vessels are the control system. An stimulus or input goes through the core system first. Let’s say that somebody broke my iPad. The core system would immediately trigger anger and sadness. The initial emotion elicitation is managed by the core system. The control system would then take that emotion made by the core system and then decide what to do with it. Should I express this anger and start screaming at the person who broke my iPad? Or should I stay calm and go about this methodically? A good control system would be able to take whatever emotion was elicited and manage the physiological responses and actions taken. This control system is developed as time goes on and will differ between person to person. Based on a person’s experience will different control methods be developed that work in accordance with the person’s initial core response and intention. 

This is especially important in modern society, as greater emotional control is associated with maturity. While sometimes it is alright to express the core, immediate emotions, it is also important to regulate those emotions appropriately. You can see this control system at work in the Taxi Driver reading. At a certain point in the reading it states, “The driver gave me a look that was full of hatred. The possibility of smashing in my face and losing his job hovered in the air. He considered for a long moment, took a deep breath, turned around, shifted into first gear and drove”. The core system wanted the driver to smash in the narrator’s face in anger, but the control system decided that it probably wasn’t a good idea to do so. 

This control system can also be selective, because while in that instance the driver decided to control his desire, prior to that he did not. When Lev, the child, knocked down the ashtray, the driver braked suddenly and started screaming at the kid. This would be an instance of the control system not being prioritized and the driver letting the core system take over his actions. 

# Surprise Stimulus 
### (4) Why/How are emotions important and/or functional (intrapersonal, dyadic, in a group?) 

Emotions serve important functions in intrapersonal, dyadic and group settings. First of all, emotions can serve as a motivational trigger for the individual. By feeling emotions as a reaction to certain situations or events, an individual may be more motivated to meet a certain goal or to better themselves. 

In a dyad, there are different ways that emotions can be used. It can be used to communicate affection and interest, usually with romantic relationships. Emotions are reciprocated and one is able to tell if their feelings towards the other person is present as well in them. This is thought to have originated from an evolutionary standpoint, as it was important for people to recognize potential partners in order to procreate and create offspring. However, aside from romantic relationships and partners, it can serve as a great communicative method. Emotion is thought to be innate, meaning that it is something that we humans are born with. This is seen between mothers and children, as any interaction and communication between the two will impact the growth and development of the child. It was seen that in infants, if the mother is smiling, the child also follows suit. There is research studying whether or not this is mirroring behavior, but it is largely believed to be empathy rather than mirroring. 

A great example is the surprise stimulus involving the baby crying to their mother’s singing. The song’s lyrics are quite melancholy and although the child is  (presumably) unable to understand the words (the language) and the meaning of the song, somehow the emotion expressed through the music was able to be communicated to the baby. The way the mother was singing - it wasn’t particularly sad, just a hint of sadness - caused the baby to feel that sadness and to cry. Once the song was over and the mother began to comfort the child, the child went back to being happy. The video was a great example of the innate nature of emotions and its role in communication, building relationships and growth. 

Emotions also have functions in group settings. Emotions are amplified with lots of people, which is why reactions between sports fans when they’re alone are quiet, compared to reactions to a win when they’re in a stadium. It facilitates stronger emotional reactions and bonds, probably due to the validation that is received when multiple people are feeling the same emotion. Similarly to the role of emotion for the individual, it can really motivate a group of people to work towards a common goal. Another role emotions play in groups are for setting hierarchies. By causing certain emotions to be felt or manipulating motion (ex. shaming), a hierarchy can be maintained. 

###  (6) Emotion elicitation. Pros, cons, and unique nature of each method (movies, slides, music, social, psychological etc.) - both in research and in the real world. 

There are different ways to elicit emotion, and while the most typical way (and the way that most people feel emotions from) are from daily conversation and social interactions with people, there are other methods that can elicit real emotions.

The real world, involving human interaction and conversation, is the most common and prominent way of eliciting emotion. From social interactions and relationships do we most strongly feel emotions from, because it has real life implications! If we have a fight with somebody that is close to us, it hits us harder than with somebody we’re not as close with because now that bond, that relationship that had been built could be at risk. 

Another method of eliciting emotions is with movies. Now this method has real world implications but is also widely used in the research setting. Movies are a great method of studying and eliciting emotion in the research setting because it greatly reflects reality. It is as close to reality as one can get without it actually being real. Because the image and setting shown on screen is moving, has sound, has people and conversation, it has a high immersion probability and thus has high validity and fidelity with elicited emotions. However, the downsides to movies is that it is difficult to measure a singular emotion. As a film goes on, people will experience different emotions over a period of time. When someone is asked how they felt about a film, since some time already has passed from the beginning of the film to the question, the emotion is watered down and generalized. But it is also not a good idea to constantly measure emotions throughout the film, as an increased frequency of measuring in of itself can alter the emotional experience. 

Another method of eliciting emotions in a research setting is through slides (images). There is a database of over a thousand images called the IAPS, and these images are carefully selected to elicit certain emotions. Images are great because they are extremely easy to manipulate and control different factors. You can control brightness, size, content of the image, complexity and duration of time the image is shown. This can result in a more specific and pinpointed response than a film (because the film has so many factors that are uncontrollable). However, an image doesn’t feel as real as a film would. 

Something that feels the most real would be social psychological situations done in the research setting. These are situations that are made up by researchers and involve a lot of planning, deception and acting in order to elicit and produce the most real of emotions. These are typically used to elicit stronger emotions such as anger (which is difficult to elicit from other methods). Because participants are in “real” situations that are highly immersive, emotions generated from participation are perceived to be more genuine and of higher intensity. However, this method is quite difficult because there are several factors that need to be taken into account. The cover story that is used to mask the true purpose of the study is important because one participants have an idea of what the researchers are trying to study, emotions elicited are already manipulated and changed. The behavior of the researchers is also extremely important because acting is difficult! Subconscious behavior is extremely hard to control, so a method that is typically used is to use several different people throughout different points of the experiment in order to minimize any sort of behavior that can cause bias.

One last thing that elicits emotions is music. Now the usage of music in research settings is less common (compared to the three mentioned above), but music is an extremely powerful way to communicate emotion. It has been used since the beginning of humanity to pass down stories, to communicate, to bond with people - something about music (whether it is through lyrics, instrumentals, chord progressions) elicits such strong emotional reactions in people. There are lots of studies discussing the relationship between emotion and music, and while I won’t discuss those theories here, a great example that shows the validity of music as an emotional communicator is the surprise stimulus. The song that the mother was singing did not have any instrumentals, so there are no chord progressions or instrumentation that can be used to elicit emotion - the mother was just singing acapella. As I discussed above, although the child is presumably unable to understand the content of the lyrics (which were melancholy), the emotion displayed even in that simple acapella singing from the mother was able to elicit crying and sadness from the infant. This just goes to show how powerful music is as a communicator of emotion.