This week’s readings were a little less interesting to me than the previous couple - mostly because instead of focusing on the role of emotion and on emotion itself, it was on the testing methodology of emotions. I don’t really know what to write. I did find the reading on films and why it’s most commonly chosen quite interesting. I’m not someone who enjoys watching movies, mostly because I don’t like having to sit down and watch something at someone else’s pace (not something that you need to know). 

However, I do think that films are an extremely great caveat for conveying emotion. It is much easier to grasp what a film is trying to convey in comparison to other mediums, such as visual art or music. With visual art, it’s relying on solely visual elements, such as a subject, environment, or colors. Most of the time the image being conveyed is a static moment in time. With music, it’s purely auditory. I am not denying the strengths that visual art and music can have in eliciting emotion, but films are very “naturalistic” - it is something one can experience and truly “feel”. It resembles something that can very much happen in reality. 

I think an interesting direction that can be taken from this reading in particular is how empathy impacts these study results. The other readings discuss the things that researchers have to do in order to make sure there are no extraneous variables impacting how participants participate in the studies. Those things include cover stories, how the experimenter behaves throughout the study, being aware of things that can manipulate or change participants’ responses etc. But something that I would like to see is how empathy can really skew results. 

As I mentioned earlier, I don’t typically enjoy watching films. A large reason why is because I don’t like sitting and watching something that is presented at a pace that I don’t feel natural in. Not that I don’t acknowledge the art that goes into it. The pacing and visual communication that goes into films, movies, audiovisual installations and more is extremely difficult to construct and takes a lot of thought. With movies, especially those that have a very clear story, with characters and dynamics, and a message that is trying to be communicated, I have a difficult time empathizing with said characters. I have a much easier time with abstract or art films, where the meaning of the piece is up to interpretation and the viewer. I can take my own experiences and my own world view and place it within the director’s world. With “story based movies” (and tv series), it is really important to empathize with the characters and what they’re going through in order to feel engrossed in the movie. I know there are going to be a lot of participants that watch a sad scene in a movie and state that they didn’t feel anything. And I think it’d be very interesting to see the role that empathy plays in these, because I do think that a person’s ability to empathize plays into it, but I know there are also some other variables that I can’t quite place a finger on